.PU
.TH XESCOBA 6x 18-4-1.999 "Ignacio Martín Bragado"
.SH NAME
xescoba \- Escoba ( Spanish card game ) for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xescoba
.I [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION
This page manual describes
.BR xescoba.
.PP
.B xescoba
is a program to play escoba card against computer or another humans.
.PP
.B xescoba
is a implementation of the popular escoba Spanish card game made in GTK.

.SS Game rules
The 'escoba' purpose is to win the greatest possible amount of cards,
golds, sevens, sweepings and the special card named the 'velo', that is, the
seven of golds. Every sweeping and the 'velo' wins one point. For the rest
the point is won when you have more amount of golds, cards or sevens than
the others.

You make a 'escoba' or a sweeping when you win all the cards on the
center.

Playing 'escoba' is simple: You have only to play a card every turn.
If there is some combination of this card with centers ones adding 15 you
win this cards. If not your card stays on center. In order to make this
combination you should know that knights are 9 points, kings 10 and 'sotas'
8 points. That is. The cards whose nominal value are 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7 are
evaluated as 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7 (no difficult!) and the 10,11 and 12 as 8,9
and 10. Here is a table:
.nf
	Nominal value.		Real value for adding
	
	1                               1
	2                               2
	3                               3
	4                               4
	5                               5
	6                               6
	7                               7
	10 (sota)                       8
	11 (knight)                     9
	12 (king)                      10
.fi

	For example: Playing a seven with a 'sota' is a valid trick, because
they add 15. 

	More examples: Here are some examples. NOTE: There are a lot of
more valid tricks then the ones here!.

.nf
	Real cards			Values for adding  

	1,4,king                        1+4+10    = 15    OK!
	2,2,2,knight                    2+2+2+9   = 15    OK!
	7+sota                          7+8       = 15    OK!
	4,5,6                           4+5+6     = 15    OK!
	1,1,3,7,3                       1+1+3+7+3 = 15    OK! 	
.fi

.SH OPTIONS
This program has no special command line options. You can use all options
that GTK widgets support.

.SS Menu
In the properties option of menu you can chose:
.TP
.B Sound
Make sound active or not.
.TP
.B Game exposition window
To active or not the visualization of last trick.
.TP
.B Advice
When advice is active the computer select for you
what it think is the better trick. If you accept it only have to
click in turn button. Else you should reselect your trick
and clicking turn button.
.TP
.B Configuration
When selecting configuration you obtain a configuration
dialog. Here you can select the number of players (from 2 to 4) and their
nature (human or computer ones). You can write their names, too.

This dialog modifies the configuration file.
						
.SS The configuration file
The configuration file .xescoba should be in $HOME. Such file have
the following fields:

jugadores = players_number

players_number is a number from 1 to 4

.nf
jugador0 = player_name0
jugador1 = player_name1
jugador2 = player_name2
jugador3 = player_name3

naturaleza0 = 0_or_1
naturaleza1 = 0_or_1
naturaleza2 = 0_or_1
naturaleza3 = 0_or_1
.fi

For a human player you write:

naturalezaX = 0

where 'X' is a 0,1,2,3 according with the other fields. For a
computer one you write

naturalezaX = 1

.SH "SEE TOO"
For further information consult the file
.IR README
included with the program

.SH AUTHOR
Ignacio Martín Bragado <ignacio.martin@tel.uva.es>

